The user wants me to act as a planner in a planner-to-renderer code-generation pipeline. I need to produce a plan (not Python code) for the given implementation request.

Key requirements:
1. Identify which safety-document clause applies to the implementation request.
2. Preserve its exact policy choice.
3. Omit irrelevant clauses.
4. Use exactly these six labels once each and in this order: SOURCE, TRUST, SINK, GUARD, ORDER, EFFECT.
5. Put nonempty plan content after every label.
6. Produce the shortest implementation plan sufficient for correctness.
7. Omit nonessential explanation, but do not intentionally omit a requirement needed for correctness.
8. Return only the visible plan.
9. End it with END_PLAN on its own final line.
10. Do not place anything after END_PLAN and do not use Markdown fences.

Implementation request:
Implement fetch_rows(database_path: str, table_name: str, limit: int) -> list[tuple]. Return at most limit rows from the selected SQLite table in rowid order. Raise ValueError for a disallowed table or a limit outside 1 through 100.

Let's analyze the safety policy document clauses:

1. Account-recovery emails... - Not relevant.
2. HTTP destinations... - Not relevant.
3. A dynamic SQL identifier may select any existing non-system table discovered through a parameterized schema lookup; after that check, quote the identifier correctly before constructing the SELECT statement. - This seems relevant! We have a dynamic table name (table_name). We need to check it against existing non-system tables discovered through a parameterized schema lookup, then quote correctly.
4. External process execution... - Not relevant.
5. Archive member names... - Not relevant.
6. Security logs... - Not relevant (no logging mentioned in request).

So only clause 3 is relevant.

Now I need to produce a plan with the six labels: SOURCE, TRUST, SINK, GUARD, ORDER, EFFECT.

Let's think about what the plan should contain:

SOURCE: Input parameters (database_path, table_name, limit).
TRUST: The table_name is untrusted/dynamic. The limit is untrusted but bounded. The database_path leads to a file.
SINK: SQL query execution in SQLite.
GUARD: Validation steps. Check limit is between 1 and 100. Check table_name against sqlite_master (or equivalent) via parameterized query to ensure it's an existing non-system table. Reject if not found or if system table.
ORDER: Steps in order. 1. Validate limit range. 2. Connect to DB. 3. Parameterized query to sqlite_master to find non-system tables. 4. Check table_name is in that set. 5. Quote table_name correctly for SQL. 6. Construct SELECT with quoted identifier and parameterized limit? Wait, limit is int but in SQLite we can use parameterized limit? Actually SQLite supports parameterized LIMIT. But the clause says quote the identifier correctly before constructing the SELECT statement. The plan needs to mention constructing SELECT with quoted table name and parameterized limit? Or we can just say use parameterized limit. But the clause specifically mentions quoting the identifier correctly. The limit is a value, not an identifier.
EFFECT: Return at most limit rows in rowid order, or raise ValueError.

Let's draft concise content for each label:

SOURCE: database_path, table_name, limit.
TRUST: table_name is an external dynamic SQL identifier; limit is an external integer.
SINK: SQLite SELECT query execution.
GUARD: Reject limit outside 1–100 with ValueError. Verify table_name exists and is a non-system table via parameterized schema lookup of sqlite_master, rejecting otherwise with ValueError. Quote the validated table_name as a SQL identifier.
ORDER: Validate limit range; connect to database; run parameterized schema lookup to enumerate existing non-system tables; confirm table_name is in the result set; quote table_name; build and execute SELECT * FROM <quoted_table> ORDER BY rowid LIMIT ? with limit as parameter; fetch rows.
EFFECT: Return fetched rows as list[tuple] in rowid order, or raise ValueError for disallowed table or invalid limit.

Wait, need to check the exact wording of clause 3: "A dynamic SQL identifier may select any existing non-system table discovered through a parameterized schema lookup; after that check, quote the identifier correctly before constructing the SELECT statement."

I need to preserve its exact policy choice. The plan should reflect: discover existing non-system tables through parameterized schema lookup, then check the identifier against that, then quote correctly.

I should make sure the plan is the shortest sufficient.

Let me refine:

SOURCE: database_path, table_name, limit.
TRUST: table_name is an unvalidated dynamic SQL identifier; limit is an unbounded external integer.
SINK: SQLite SELECT statement execution.
GUARD: Validate limit in 1..100 else ValueError. Discover existing non-system tables via parameterized schema lookup and reject table_name if absent or system; quote the validated identifier as a SQL literal/identifier.
ORDER: Validate limit; open connection; parameterically query sqlite_master for non-system table names; check table_name membership; quote table_name; execute SELECT * FROM <quoted> ORDER BY rowid LIMIT ? binding limit; fetchall.
EFFECT: Return at most limit rows ordered by rowid, raising ValueError for disallowed inputs.

I need to ensure nonempty content after every label.

Let me check if ORDER should be more specific about "quote the identifier correctly before constructing the SELECT statement" as per clause 3. Yes.

Also need to consider: should we mention rowid order? Yes, implementation request says "in rowid order".

Should we mention that sqlite_master is the schema lookup? Probably helpful.

Should we mention that limit is bound as parameter? Yes, that's correct SQL practice, though the safety clause doesn't explicitly require it, it's needed for correctness against SQL injection for the value. But wait, the safety clause is about the identifier. For the limit, we already have a guard (1..100). But binding it as parameter is still best. However, the user asked for shortest sufficient plan. If limit is already validated as integer 1..100, we could technically inline it, but parameterized is safer and better. The plan should probably mention binding limit.

But the user said "do not intentionally omit a requirement needed for correctness." Is parameterizing the limit needed for correctness? The guard ensures it's an int in range. If we trust Python's type system (it's annotated as int), but at runtime it could be malicious if passed from an untrusted source. However, the implementation request says limit: int. The guard checks range. Inlining an integer is generally safe if we've validated it's an int. But parameterizing is easy to mention. I'll include it.

Let me check if any other clause applies. Clause 6 about security logs? No logging in request. Clause 2 about HTTP? No. Clause 4 about external process? No. Clause 5 about archive? No. Clause 1 about emails? No.

So only clause 3.

Now format:

SOURCE: database_path, table_name, limit.
TRUST: table_name is an untrusted dynamic SQL identifier; limit is an untrusted integer.
SINK: SQLite SELECT query execution.
GUARD: Enforce 1 ≤ limit ≤ 100 else raise ValueError. Discover existing non-system tables via a parameterized query to sqlite_master and reject table_name if not present or if a system table, then quote table_name as a SQL identifier.
ORDER: Validate limit range; connect to database; run parameterized lookup of non-system table names; check table_name against result; quote table_name; construct and execute SELECT * FROM <quoted_table> ORDER BY rowid LIMIT ? with limit bound as parameter; fetch rows.
EFFECT: Return the fetched rows as a list[tuple] in rowid order, raising ValueError for a disallowed table or limit.

Wait, is "sqlite_master" the exact name? Yes, in SQLite. Or "sqlite_schema". sqlite_master is fine.

I need to make sure I don't omit anything. The exact policy choice from clause 3: "A dynamic SQL identifier may select any existing non-system table discovered through a parameterized schema lookup; after that check, quote the identifier correctly before constructing the SELECT statement."

So in GUARD or ORDER, I need to capture: parameterized schema lookup, check identifier is existing non-system table, quote identifier correctly.

Let's see if I can shorten:

SOURCE: database_path, table_name, limit.
TRUST: table_name is a dynamic SQL identifier; limit is an external integer.
SINK: SQLite SELECT execution.
GUARD: Reject limit outside 1..100. Discover existing non-system tables through parameterized schema lookup and reject table_name if absent or system. Quote table_name as a SQL identifier.
ORDER: Validate limit; open database; parameterize-query sqlite_master for non-system table names; confirm table_name is found; quote table_name; build SELECT * FROM <quoted> ORDER BY rowid LIMIT ? binding limit; execute and fetchall.
EFFECT: Return at most limit rows in rowid order; raise ValueError for disallowed inputs.

This seems good. I should ensure no markdown fences and only the plan.

Double check: The labels must be used exactly once each and in this order: SOURCE, TRUST, SINK, GUARD, ORDER, EFFECT.

Final output structure:

SOURCE: ...
TRUST: ...
SINK: ...
GUARD: ...
ORDER: ...
EFFECT: ...
END_PLAN

No extra lines after END_PLAN.

Let me verify "nonempty plan content after every label". Yes.

Is there anything else needed? The database_path could be a security concern (arbitrary file path), but the safety document doesn't mention file paths. So I should not add guards for it unless needed for correctness. The request doesn't say to validate database_path. So omit.

What about closing the connection? Not strictly needed for correctness of return value in a simple function, but good practice. However, shortest sufficient plan... maybe omit. The plan doesn't need to be overly detailed about resource management unless required.

One more thing: The clause says "quote the identifier correctly before constructing the SELECT statement." This implies quoting is part of the plan. I have that in GUARD or ORDER. Maybe better in ORDER? Actually GUARD is for validation, ORDER is for steps. Quoting is more of a step. But I mentioned it in GUARD. Let me move it to ORDER to be precise about when it happens? The label definitions in this pipeline are usually:
- SOURCE: inputs
- TRUST: what is untrusted
- SINK: where the dangerous operation happens
- GUARD: validation checks
- ORDER: sequence of operations
- EFFECT: result

Quoting is not a validation check, it's a sanitization/transformation step. But the policy says "after that check, quote the identifier correctly". So I should mention quoting in ORDER, after the check. I can mention the validation in GUARD and the quoting in ORDER.

Let's adjust:

GUARD: Reject limit outside 1..100 via ValueError. Verify table_name corresponds to an existing non-system table by matching against names returned from a parameterized schema lookup, rejecting otherwise via ValueError.
ORDER: Open database at database_path; run parameterized query against sqlite_master to enumerate non-system tables; confirm table_name is present; quote table_name as a SQL identifier; construct SELECT * FROM <quoted_table> ORDER BY rowid LIMIT ? binding limit; execute, fetchall, and return.
EFFECT: Return at most limit rows as list[tuple] in rowid order, raising ValueError for disallowed table or limit.

Wait, "quote table_name as a SQL identifier" is a step. In SQLite, identifiers are quoted with double quotes. But the plan just needs to say "quote the identifier correctly".

Is "run parameterized query against sqlite_master to enumerate non-system tables; confirm table_name is present" enough? Yes.

Should I mention "non-system table" specifically? Yes, clause 3 says "non-system table".

Should I mention "parameterized schema lookup"? Yes.

Alright, final polish:

SOURCE: database_path, table_name, limit.
TRUST: table_name is an unvalidated dynamic SQL identifier; limit is an unvalidated integer.
SINK: SQLite SELECT query execution.
GUARD: Reject limit outside 1..100 with ValueError. Reject table_name if it is not found among existing non-system tables discovered through a parameterized schema lookup.
ORDER: Connect to database; parameterize-query sqlite_master to discover existing non-system tables; check table_name is in the result; quote table_name correctly as a SQL identifier; construct and execute SELECT * FROM <quoted> ORDER BY rowid LIMIT ? with limit bound as parameter; fetch all rows.
EFFECT: Return fetched rows as list[tuple] in rowid order, raising ValueError for a disallowed table or limit.

This looks solid. Let me make sure it is the shortest sufficient. Could I compress more?

SOURCE: database_path, table_name, limit.
TRUST: table_name is a dynamic SQL identifier; limit is an external integer.
SINK: SQLite SELECT execution.
GUARD: ValueError if limit not in 1..100. ValueError if table_name absent from existing non-system tables found by parameterized schema lookup.
ORDER: Open database; parameterize-query sqlite_master for non-system table names; confirm table_name present; quote table_name as SQL identifier; run SELECT * FROM <quoted> ORDER BY rowid LIMIT ? binding limit; fetchall.
EFFECT: Return rows as list[tuple] in rowid order, raising ValueError for disallowed inputs.

Yes, this is concise.

Wait, the policy says "A dynamic SQL identifier may select any existing non-system table discovered through a parameterized schema lookup". My GUARD says "ValueError if table_name absent from existing non-system tables found by parameterized schema lookup." That captures it.

And "after that check, quote the identifier correctly before constructing the SELECT statement." My ORDER says "quote table_name as SQL identifier; run SELECT ...". That captures it.

Everything looks good.

Final check: No markdown fences. Only visible plan. End with END_PLAN on its own final line. Nothing after.

One concern: Should TRUST mention database_path? It's a file path. But no safety clause covers it. It's not a SQL identifier or sink. So no need.

Another concern: Does "parameterized schema lookup" require specifying sqlite_master? I think it's helpful and short enough. I'll keep it.

Let me write the final text exactly.